George Davis -- Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Bob, and good afternoon everyone. Q4 marked a much stronger than expected finish to a record year. Both Mobileye and our PC-centric segment achieved record quarters. Q4 revenue was $20 billion, exceeding our guidance by $2.6 billion.

The revenue beat was broad-based led by stronger than expected notebook and cloud demand, along with contributions from desktop and enterprise and government. Datacenter related demand also led to stronger revenues in NAND. The gross margin for the quarter was 58.4%, exceeding the guide by 3 points due to flow through on higher revenue, and the benefit of Ice Lake server achieving production qualification prior to year-end. Q4 EPS was $1.52, $0.42 above our guide due to strong operational performance, and further boosted by gains from our ICAP portfolio.

Excluding a one-time tax adjustment, about two-thirds of our EPS beat was operational and one-third was below the line. For full-year 2020, we achieved record revenue of $77.9 billion, $4.4 billion higher than our January guide, which reflects a one-year acceleration relative to our 2019 Investor Day target. EPS was $5.30, up to $0.43 year over year, and $0.30 higher than our January guide. We generated $21.1 billion of free cash flow, up 25% year on year, and returned 94% of free cash flow to shareholders.

In total, we have repurchased approximately $17.6 billion shares as part of our planned $20 billion share repurchases announced in October 2019. We intend to complete the remaining $2.4 billion balance in Q1 '21. Moving briefly to the segment performance, our data center group generated record revenue in 2020, up 11% year over year. In Q4, DCG delivered revenue of $6.1 billion, down 16% year over year driven by enterprise and government weakness, and cloud digestion albeit lower than expected.

As a reminder, Q4 '19 was tough to compare with an all-time record for revenue with strength across all segments. DCGs operating margin in Q4 was down $1.4 billion years on year on lower revenue and increased investment. Our other data-centric businesses were up 1% year over year in 2020. In Q4, these businesses were down 5% year over year, driven largely by COVID-related demand impacts, partially offset by Mobileye growth.

IOTG revenue was down 16% year over year, due to COVID effects on demand. We expect a recovery in IOTG in 2021 and saw sequential growth of $100 million in the quarter on stabilizing industrial and video segments. Mobileye revenue was up 39% year over year in the quarter and the operating margin was $110 million, both records as IQSoC demand continues to be strong. NSG revenue was $1.2 billion, down 1% year on year on lower ASPs, partially offset by higher volume growth.

The operating margin was $76 million. PSG revenue was down 16% year over year, due mostly to 5G ASIC transitions at key accounts in the communications segment. CCG delivered a fifth straight year of record revenue, up 8% year over year. For the quarter, revenue was up 9% year over year, driven by record notebook unit volume.

ASPs were down 11%, due to increased volume in consumer entry and education segments. Adjacency revenue was down 31%, driven by modem ramp down and the divestiture of our Home Gateway Business. Operating income was $4.5 billion, up $420 million year over year on higher volume, partially offset by the ramp of 10-nanometer products. Moving to our outlook.

As Bob and Trey said, we believe it is important to give Pat time to assume his new role and dig into the business before announcing our full-year 2021 guidance and longer-term plans. However, I will provide our Q1 outlook, and then for the year discuss the high-level headwinds and tailwinds we expect. As a reminder, our outlook for 2021 excludes the NAND business. We expect Q1 revenue of $17.5 billion, down 12% year over year, or down 6% excluding NAND.

We see continuing strong demand for notebook PCs in Q1, up significantly year over year and expect desktop volumes to be down year over year. We anticipate further cloud digestion and continued COVID demand impacts on IOTG. The Q1 revenue estimate also includes approximately $500 million in corporate revenue that is one-time in nature and relates to a prepaid revenue arrangement. As we look at the remainder of the year, we see solid TAM growth in our core markets in 2021.

We expect PC demand to be more first-half weighted than normal seasonality and expect data-centric demand to be more concentrated in the second half as cloud digestion eases, and COVID impacted markets such as enterprise, data center, and IoT improve. We have strong product road maps but have anticipated a more competitive market and the continued mix shift to entry consumer PCs in our revenue plans this year. Finally, we will see lower modem revenue this year from our exit of that business. Gross margin in Q1 is expected to be approximately 58%, down year over year by approximately 4 points on mix related ASPs from lower Xeon SoC volume, and higher small core PC units partially offset by lower margin impact from divested businesses and some improvements from our DCG adjacencies.

Q1 operating margin is expected to be approximately 30%. We are forecasting EPS of approximately $1.10 per share, and a tax rate of 14.5%. With that, let me turn it back over to Trey, and get to your questions.